Yontem:
	1.	Check for errors in data cleaning/transformation.
	2.	Use data from additional sources to fill missing values.
	3.	Drop row/column.
	4.	Fill missing values with reasonable estimates computed from the available data.

There are many options for choosing the replacement value, including:
	•	A constant value
	•	The mean of the column
	•	The median of the column
	•	The mode of the column

We also started to set a more defined data cleaning workflow, in which we:
	•	Set a goal for the project.
	•	Researched and tried to understand the data.
	•	Determined what data was needed to complete our analysis.
	•	Added columns.
	•	Cleaned specific data types.
	•	Combined data sets.
	•	Removed duplicate values.
	•	Handled the missing values.
Projede cevabini aradigin soru/sorular ne?
Belgeyi okut ve ilk gozatma komutları ile dataya bak.
Cevaba ulaşmak icin hangi verileri/sutunlari kullanmam gerekiyor? Baska bir tablodan ekstra veri alacak miyim?
Datalari birleştir.
Gereksiz sutunlari at.
Sutun eklemen gerekiyorsa ekle.
Cleaning asamasina gec (duplicate, missing data)



— shape_2015=happiness2015.shape
shape_2016=happiness2016.shape
shape_2017=happiness2017.shape

—missing = happiness2015['Happiness Score'].isnull()	          bos hucreleri Iceren dataframe verir
happiness2015[missing]

—missing_2016= happiness2016.isnull().sum()		herbir kolonda kac bos hucre var
missing_2017= happiness2017.isnull().sum()

—happiness2017.columns = happiness2017.columns.str.replace('.', ' ').str.replace('\s+', ' ').str.strip().str.upper()
happiness2015.columns = happiness2015.columns.str.replace('(', '').str.replace(')', '').str.strip().str.upper()
happiness2016.columns = happiness2016.columns.str.replace('(', '').str.replace(')', '').str.strip().str.upper()

combined = pd.concat([happiness2015, happiness2016, happiness2017], ignore_index=True)
missing = combined.isnull().sum()

—import seaborn as sns
combined_updated = combined.set_index('YEAR')
sns.heatmap(combined_updated.isnull(), cbar=False)

We can learn more about where these missing values are located by visualizing them with a heatmap, a graphical representation of our data in which values are represented as colors. We'll use the seaborn library to create the heatmap.
Note below that we first reset the index to be the YEAR column so that we'll be able to see the corresponding year on the left side of the heatmap:

—regions_2017=combined[combined['YEAR']==2017]['REGION']
missing=regions_2017.isnull().sum().  			 yili 2017 olan dataframedeki region sütununda kac adet bos deger var.

—combined=pd.merge(left=combined, right=regions, on='COUNTRY', how='left')
combined=combined.drop('REGION_x', axis=1)
missing=combined.isnull().sum()

—combined=pd.merge(left=combined, right=regions, on='COUNTRY', how='left')
combined=combined.drop('REGION_x', axis=1)
missing=combined.isnull().sum()

—dups = combined.duplicated(['COUNTRY', 'YEAR'])		ayni yıl ve ayni ülke var mi
combined[dups]

—combined['COUNTRY']=combined['COUNTRY'].str.upper()
dups = combined.duplicated(['COUNTRY', 'YEAR'])
print(combined[dups])

—combined['COUNTRY'] = combined['COUNTRY'].str.upper()
combined=combined.drop_duplicates(['COUNTRY', 'YEAR'])			hangi sutunlara gore sileceğiz, default olarak ilkini bırakıyor, ikinciyi siliyor, keep=‘last’ dersek tam tersini yapar.	

— columns_to_drop = ['LOWER CONFIDENCE INTERVAL', 'STANDARD ERROR', 'UPPER CONFIDENCE INTERVAL', 'WHISKER HIGH', 'WHISKER LOW']
combined=combined.drop(columns_to_drop,axis=1)
missing=combined.isnull().sum()

— df.dropna(axis=1)                  icinde nan deger olan sutunu siler. Default olarak icinde nan deger olan satiri siler.

— combined.notnull().sum().sort_values()

—combined=combined.dropna(thresh=159, axis=1)  		 icinde 159 adetten fazla nan deger iceren sutunu siler
missing=combined.isnull().sum()

—happiness_mean=combined['HAPPINESS SCORE'].mean()
combined['HAPPINESS SCORE UPDATED']=combined['HAPPINESS SCORE'].fillna(happiness_mean)              nan degerleri mean ile doldurma yontemi. nan degerleri mean ile doldurduk ancak sunu farkettik, cogu nan degeri barındıran
print(combined['HAPPINESS SCORE UPDATED'].mean())									subsaharan ülkelerinin mean degeri 4,15 ama biz tum ülkelerin mean degeri olan 5, 37 soru ile doldurduk. Bunun iyi bir yöntem 																			olmadigina karar verip, nan degerleri doldurmak yerine sildik.

—combined=combined.dropna()
missing=combined.isnull().sum()
















